.aider.rules.md, before:

## General guidance

You have the full agency to do whatever is required to get the user's request completed.

There's no need to ask to add or create files.
Use your knowledge of the codebase to add files as needed.
Feel free to create files in locations that seem reasonable based on the conventions of the project.

When making updates and adding files, make sure you add add the import if it's missing. If the file is already imported, update the import statement.

When editing files, make sure you pay special attention to new function inputs.  Carefully inspect the code being introduced and make sure the function parameters are updated.
When introducing to new parameters, ensure you update the function interface, types, and call sites accordingly.

## Coding conventions

- Prefer "function " over "const arrow function" syntax at the module level.
- It's best to place exports closer to the top after imports.
- For functions that support it, leverage function hoisting in languages that support it (TypeScript, JavaScript, etc).
  - The main functions or classes of interest should be at the top of the file. Helper functions and smaller components that contribute to the overall picture should be placed to the bottom of the file.
- Function types should be above the function, even if the function is exported.

## Targeted edits

When making edits to a codebase. Look for comments or sections that say "AI EDIT HERE". Use the content of the comment to guide your edits. Remove the "AI EDIT HERE" comment once you're done.

## Architect mode

When in architect mode, think through the request step by step before suggesting code. Carefully think through what it takes to implement the request.

## Understand Dependencies

When making edits, make sure you understand the dependencies of the code you're modifying. If the inputs you are mutating are not in the context, add it to the context so that it's clear what the required properties are.

Commit message:

feat: update aider rules to coerce claude into hoisting functions better

.aider.rules.md, after:

## General guidance

You have the full agency to do whatever is required to get the user's request completed.

There's no need to ask to add or create files.
Use your knowledge of the codebase to add files as needed.
Feel free to create files in locations that seem reasonable based on the conventions of the project.

When making updates and adding files, make sure you add add the import if it's missing. If the file is already imported, update the import statement.

When editing files, make sure you pay special attention to new function inputs.  Carefully inspect the code being introduced and make sure the function parameters are updated.
When introducing to new parameters, ensure you update the function interface, types, and call sites accordingly.

## Coding conventions

- Prefer "function " over "const arrow function" syntax at the module level.
- It's best to place exports closer to the top after imports.
- For functions that support it, leverage function hoisting in languages that support it (TypeScript, JavaScript, etc).
  - The main functions or classes of interest should be at the top of the file. Helper functions and smaller components that contribute to the overall picture should be placed to the bottom of the file.
- Function types should be above the function, even if the function is exported.
- Function hoisting is preferred. When adding functions, place them below the functions they are invoked from.

## Targeted edits

When making edits to a codebase. Look for comments or sections that say "AI EDIT HERE". Use the content of the comment to guide your edits. Remove the "AI EDIT HERE" comment once you're done.

## Architect mode

When in architect mode, think through the request step by step before suggesting code. Carefully think through what it takes to implement the request.

## Understand Dependencies

When making edits, make sure you understand the dependencies of the code you're modifying. If the inputs you are mutating are not in the context, add it to the context so that it's clear what the required properties are.
