agents/skills/ctdio-ralph-bugbot/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: ctdio-ralph-bugbot
description: Loop-aware skill for iteratively addressing bugbot feedback and CI failures on PRs. Fetches unresolved bugbot comments, triages them, fixes valid bugs, resolves false positives, checks CI status, fixes lint/format/test failures, and commits changes. Designed to be used with ralph-loop.
color: orange
---

# Ralph Bugbot

Loop-aware skill for iteratively addressing bugbot feedback and CI failures. Designed to be used with `/ralph-loop`.

## Purpose

This skill helps you systematically address bugbot feedback and CI failures on pull requests by:

1. Fetching unresolved bugbot comments
2. Triaging each comment (bug vs false positive)
3. Fixing valid bugs with surgical edits
4. Resolving verified false positives via GraphQL
5. Committing and pushing changes
6. Waiting for bugbot to re-analyze
7. Checking CI status (lint, format, tests, build)
8. Fixing any CI failures found

## CRITICAL: Execute Commands Immediately

**DO NOT deliberate or explain. Run the bash commands in each step IMMEDIATELY.**

This is an action-oriented skill. Follow steps in order, execute commands directly, move fast.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Wait for Bugbot (if running)

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY to ensure bugbot has finished analyzing:**

Run the `wait-for-bugbot.sh` script in this skill's directory.

This script checks if bugbot is currently running and waits for it to complete before proceeding.

### Step 2: Fetch Unresolved Comments

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY:**

```bash
# Get repo and PR info
OWNER=$(gh repo view --json owner -q '.owner.login')
REPO=$(gh repo view --json name -q '.name')
PR_NUM=$(gh pr view --json number -q '.number')

echo "Fetching bugbot comments on PR #$PR_NUM..."

# Get unresolved review threads from bugbot (with thread IDs for resolving)
gh api graphql -f query='
query {
  repository(owner: "'"$OWNER"'", name: "'"$REPO"'") {
    pullRequest(number: '"$PR_NUM"') {
      reviewThreads(first: 50) {
        nodes {
          id
          isResolved
          comments(first: 1) {
            nodes {
              author { login }
              body
              path
              line
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}' --jq '.data.repository.pullRequest.reviewThreads.nodes[] | select(.isResolved == false) | select(.comments.nodes[0].author.login == "cursor")'
```

### Step 3: Evaluate Bugbot Comments

**IMMEDIATELY after Step 2:**

- **Zero comments?** → Skip to Step 7 (Check CI Status). Bugbot is satisfied but CI may still need fixes.
- **Has comments?** → Continue to Step 4. Do not deliberate.

### Step 4: Process Each Comment

For each unresolved bugbot comment:

#### Triage

Categorize before investigating:

- **Likely bug**: Logic errors, null checks, race conditions, security issues
- **Likely false positive**: Style suggestions, "consider using", optional improvements
- **Needs investigation**: Unclear without reading code

#### Verify RIGOROUSLY

**For potential false positives, you MUST prove it before resolving:**

1. **Read the ENTIRE file** - Get complete context, not just the flagged line
2. **Search for related code** - Use Grep to find similar patterns in codebase
3. **Check defensive code** - Look for validation, error handling, type guards elsewhere
4. **Trace data flow** - Follow the execution path to understand safeguards
5. **Verify false positive criteria** - Confirm it matches one of these:
   - Style suggestion only (no functional impact)
   - Already handled by defensive code elsewhere
   - Impossible condition (proven by type system or validation)
   - Misunderstanding of framework/library behavior

**ONLY if you have concrete evidence it's safe, mark as false positive.**

#### Fix Valid Bugs

- Make minimal, surgical edits
- Follow existing code patterns
- One fix at a time

#### Resolve False Positives

**ONLY after rigorous verification:**

1. **First, post a reply explaining the false positive:**

```bash
# THREAD_ID from Step 2's output (the "id" field)
# Replace REASON with your specific evidence-based explanation

REASON="[Your explanation here - be specific about why this is safe]"

# JSON-escape the reason to handle quotes and special characters
ESCAPED_REASON=$(echo "$REASON" | jq -Rs '.')
# Remove the outer quotes that jq adds (we'll add them in the query)
ESCAPED_REASON="${ESCAPED_REASON:1:-1}"

gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  addPullRequestReviewThreadReply(input: {
    pullRequestReviewThreadId: "'"$THREAD_ID"'",
    body: "### ✅ Resolved as False Positive\n\n**Reason:** '"$ESCAPED_REASON"'\n\n---\n<sub>🤖 *Automatically triaged by **Claude** via Ralph Bugbot skill — if this seems wrong, please reopen and flag for human review.*</sub>"
  }) {
    comment { id }
  }
}'
```

2. **Then resolve the thread:**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  resolveReviewThread(input: {threadId: "'"$THREAD_ID"'"}) {
    thread {
      id
      isResolved
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Do not resolve unless you can explain WHY it's a false positive with evidence.**

**The reply MUST include:**

- A clear, evidence-based explanation of why it's a false positive
- Reference to the specific defensive code, type system, or validation that makes it safe
- The automated disclaimer so reviewers know it was triaged by Ralph Bugbot

### Step 5: Commit and Submit

**EXECUTE THESE COMMANDS after fixing (do not skip):**

1. Stage all changes: `git add -A`
2. Commit with message describing fixes: `git commit -m "fix: address bugbot feedback"`
3. Submit via Graphite: `gt submit --update-only`

**You MUST run git add, commit, and gt submit. Do not just show the commands.**

**IMPORTANT:** Never use `git push`, `git rebase`, or `git pull`. Always use `gt submit --update-only` for pushing changes.

### Step 6: Wait for Bugbot Check

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY after pushing. Do not skip.**

Run the `wait-for-bugbot.sh` script in this skill's directory.

### Step 7: Check CI Status and Fix Failures

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY after bugbot completes:**

Run the `check-ci-status.sh` script in this skill's directory.

The script excludes bugbot checks (tracked by `wait-for-bugbot.sh`) and polls internally until all CI checks reach a terminal state.

**Evaluate the result:**

- **Exit code 0 (SUCCESS):** All CI checks passing → Continue to Step 8
- **Exit code 1 (FAILURE):** Failing checks found → Fix them (see below)
- **Exit code 2 (TIMEOUT):** Checks still pending after polling timeout → Wait 60s and re-run. **NEVER conclude the task while checks are pending.**

#### Fixing CI Failures

When checks fail, follow this process for each failing check:

**1. Get failure details:**

Run the `get-check-logs.sh` script:

```bash
# Get all failed logs
./get-check-logs.sh

# Or filter by check name
./get-check-logs.sh "lint"
./get-check-logs.sh "test"
```

The script extracts run IDs from check URLs and uses `gh run view --log-failed` to fetch the actual error output.

**2. Identify the issue type and fix:**

| Check Type     | Common Issues                  | Fix Approach                                  |
| -------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Lint**       | ESLint, TSLint, Pylint errors  | Run linter locally, fix reported errors       |
| **Format**     | Prettier, Black, gofmt         | Run formatter: `npm run format` or equivalent |
| **Type Check** | TypeScript, mypy errors        | Fix type errors in reported files             |
| **Tests**      | Unit/integration test failures | Read test output, fix failing assertions      |
| **Build**      | Compilation errors             | Fix syntax/import errors                      |

**3. Common fix commands (run locally first):**

```bash
# JavaScript/TypeScript
npm run lint -- --fix    # Auto-fix lint errors
npm run format           # Run formatter
npm run typecheck        # Check types
npm test                 # Run tests locally

# Python
ruff check --fix .       # Auto-fix lint
black .                  # Format
mypy .                   # Type check
pytest                   # Run tests

# Go
go fmt ./...             # Format
golangci-lint run        # Lint
go test ./...            # Run tests
```

**4. After fixing:**

- Stage changes: `git add -A`
- Commit: `git commit -m "fix: address CI failures"`
- Submit via Graphite: `gt submit --update-only`
- Re-run `check-ci-status.sh` to verify

**5. If you cannot fix a CI failure:**

- Note it in the progress report
- Let the human know what's failing and why you couldn't fix it
- Continue with other fixable issues

### Step 8: Report Progress

**Brief summary only** (don't over-explain):

```
Fixed: [list files:lines]
Resolved as false positive (replied + resolved): [list files:lines with brief reason]
CI fixes: [list what was fixed - lint, format, tests, etc.]
Remaining bugbot comments: [count]
CI status: [PASSING/FAILING with details]
```

### Step 9: Loop Behavior

After pushing and waiting for checks:

- The ralph-loop will re-run this skill
- Next iteration will re-fetch comments (bugbot has finished re-analyzing)

**Completion criteria — ALL must be true simultaneously:**

1. `wait-for-bugbot.sh` reached a terminal state (not pending, not timed out)
2. Step 2 finds zero unresolved bugbot comments
3. `check-ci-status.sh` exits 0 (all CI checks passing)

**You are NOT done until everything has settled.** Do not rationalize early exits. Do not describe pending checks as "just a status indicator" or "external check that can be ignored." If a script is still polling, a check is still pending, or bugbot hasn't finished — you wait. The entire purpose of this skill is to keep going until the PR is clean.

### CRITICAL: Handling Pending States

**If bugbot or any CI check is in a PENDING state, you MUST wait for it to finish before emitting the completion promise.** Specifically:

- If `wait-for-bugbot.sh` reports bugbot is still running or pending → **wait for it to complete, then re-fetch comments**
- If `check-ci-status.sh` exits with code 2 (timeout/pending) → **sleep 60 seconds and re-run the script**
- **NEVER emit `<promise>` while any check is pending** — a pending check is not a passing check
- **NEVER describe a pending check as "external" or "not blocking"** — all checks must reach a terminal state

If you find yourself writing "pending" in your progress report, that is a signal you are NOT done. Go back and wait.

## Rules

1. **Move fast** - Execute commands immediately. No deliberation between steps.
2. **Only unresolved bugbot comments** - Ignore resolved threads and other reviewers
3. **Verify rigorously** - For false positives, gather evidence before resolving
4. **Resolve false positives** - Use GraphQL mutation to mark them resolved (don't just skip)
5. **Never blindly fix OR resolve** - Both bugs and false positives need verification
6. **Minimal changes** - Fix the bug, don't refactor
7. **When uncertain, skip** - Flag for human review instead of guessing
8. **Always commit and submit** - After fixes or resolving false positives, use `gt submit --update-only`
9. **One iteration = one pass** - Don't try to loop internally; let ralph-loop handle iteration
10. **Fix CI failures** - After addressing bugbot, check and fix lint/format/test failures
11. **Run locally first** - For CI failures, run the failing check locally before pushing fixes
12. **Never rebase, push, or pull** - Only use `git add`, `git commit`, and `gt submit --update-only`. Graphite handles branch management.
13. **Never conclude until fully settled** - If any check is pending, any script is polling, or bugbot hasn't finished analyzing, you are not done. Do not rationalize pending checks as "status indicators" or "external checks." Wait until everything reaches a terminal state.
14. **Never emit `<promise>` while anything is pending** - The word "pending" in your output means you are NOT done. If you wrote "pending" anywhere in your progress report, do not emit the completion promise. Go back and wait for the pending item to resolve.

## Usage

Invoke this skill when:

- You need to address bugbot feedback on a PR
- You need to fix CI failures (lint, format, tests)
- Used with `/ralph-wiggum:ralph-loop` for automated iteration
- User says "fix bugbot comments", "fix CI", or similar

The skill will loop via ralph-loop until all bugbot comments are resolved and all CI checks pass.

Commit message:

fix: ensure ralph bugbot only processes unresolved comments
Capture GraphQL output into $UNRESOLVED array with explicit count,
add strict instructions to work exclusively from filtered output,
and expand local-postgres skill trigger phrases.

agents/skills/ctdio-ralph-bugbot/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: ctdio-ralph-bugbot
description: Loop-aware skill for iteratively addressing bugbot feedback and CI failures on PRs. Fetches unresolved bugbot comments, triages them, fixes valid bugs, resolves false positives, checks CI status, fixes lint/format/test failures, and commits changes. Designed to be used with ralph-loop.
color: orange
---

# Ralph Bugbot

Loop-aware skill for iteratively addressing bugbot feedback and CI failures. Designed to be used with `/ralph-loop`.

## Purpose

This skill helps you systematically address bugbot feedback and CI failures on pull requests by:

1. Fetching unresolved bugbot comments
2. Triaging each comment (bug vs false positive)
3. Fixing valid bugs with surgical edits
4. Resolving verified false positives via GraphQL
5. Committing and pushing changes
6. Waiting for bugbot to re-analyze
7. Checking CI status (lint, format, tests, build)
8. Fixing any CI failures found

## CRITICAL: Execute Commands Immediately

**DO NOT deliberate or explain. Run the bash commands in each step IMMEDIATELY.**

This is an action-oriented skill. Follow steps in order, execute commands directly, move fast.

## Workflow

### Step 1: Wait for Bugbot (if running)

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY to ensure bugbot has finished analyzing:**

Run the `wait-for-bugbot.sh` script in this skill's directory.

This script checks if bugbot is currently running and waits for it to complete before proceeding.

### Step 2: Fetch Unresolved Comments

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY:**

```bash
# Get repo and PR info
OWNER=$(gh repo view --json owner -q '.owner.login')
REPO=$(gh repo view --json name -q '.name')
PR_NUM=$(gh pr view --json number -q '.number')

echo "Fetching unresolved bugbot comments on PR #$PR_NUM..."

# Get ONLY unresolved review threads from bugbot (with thread IDs for resolving)
# IMPORTANT: The jq filter ensures only isResolved==false threads are returned.
# Do NOT process any threads outside this output.
UNRESOLVED=$(gh api graphql -f query='
query {
  repository(owner: "'"$OWNER"'", name: "'"$REPO"'") {
    pullRequest(number: '"$PR_NUM"') {
      reviewThreads(first: 100) {
        nodes {
          id
          isResolved
          comments(first: 1) {
            nodes {
              author { login }
              body
              path
              line
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}' --jq '[.data.repository.pullRequest.reviewThreads.nodes[] | select(.isResolved == false) | select(.comments.nodes[0].author.login == "cursor")]')

COUNT=$(echo "$UNRESOLVED" | jq 'length')
echo ""
echo "=== Unresolved Bugbot Comments: $COUNT ==="
echo "$UNRESOLVED" | jq '.'
```

**CRITICAL:** Only the comments printed above are unresolved. Do NOT re-fetch, re-query, or look at any other source of comments. The `isResolved == false` filter has already excluded resolved threads. Work exclusively from this output.

### Step 3: Evaluate Bugbot Comments

**IMMEDIATELY after Step 2, check the count from `$COUNT`:**

- **`$COUNT` is 0?** → Skip to Step 7 (Check CI Status). Bugbot is satisfied but CI may still need fixes.
- **`$COUNT` > 0?** → Continue to Step 4. Process ONLY the comments in `$UNRESOLVED`. Do not deliberate.

### Step 4: Process Each Comment

For each unresolved bugbot comment:

#### Triage

Categorize before investigating:

- **Likely bug**: Logic errors, null checks, race conditions, security issues
- **Likely false positive**: Style suggestions, "consider using", optional improvements
- **Needs investigation**: Unclear without reading code

#### Verify RIGOROUSLY

**For potential false positives, you MUST prove it before resolving:**

1. **Read the ENTIRE file** - Get complete context, not just the flagged line
2. **Search for related code** - Use Grep to find similar patterns in codebase
3. **Check defensive code** - Look for validation, error handling, type guards elsewhere
4. **Trace data flow** - Follow the execution path to understand safeguards
5. **Verify false positive criteria** - Confirm it matches one of these:
   - Style suggestion only (no functional impact)
   - Already handled by defensive code elsewhere
   - Impossible condition (proven by type system or validation)
   - Misunderstanding of framework/library behavior

**ONLY if you have concrete evidence it's safe, mark as false positive.**

#### Fix Valid Bugs

- Make minimal, surgical edits
- Follow existing code patterns
- One fix at a time

#### Resolve False Positives

**ONLY after rigorous verification:**

1. **First, post a reply explaining the false positive:**

```bash
# THREAD_ID from Step 2's output (the "id" field)
# Replace REASON with your specific evidence-based explanation

REASON="[Your explanation here - be specific about why this is safe]"

# JSON-escape the reason to handle quotes and special characters
ESCAPED_REASON=$(echo "$REASON" | jq -Rs '.')
# Remove the outer quotes that jq adds (we'll add them in the query)
ESCAPED_REASON="${ESCAPED_REASON:1:-1}"

gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  addPullRequestReviewThreadReply(input: {
    pullRequestReviewThreadId: "'"$THREAD_ID"'",
    body: "### ✅ Resolved as False Positive\n\n**Reason:** '"$ESCAPED_REASON"'\n\n---\n<sub>🤖 *Automatically triaged by **Claude** via Ralph Bugbot skill — if this seems wrong, please reopen and flag for human review.*</sub>"
  }) {
    comment { id }
  }
}'
```

2. **Then resolve the thread:**

```bash
gh api graphql -f query='
mutation {
  resolveReviewThread(input: {threadId: "'"$THREAD_ID"'"}) {
    thread {
      id
      isResolved
    }
  }
}
'
```

**Do not resolve unless you can explain WHY it's a false positive with evidence.**

**The reply MUST include:**

- A clear, evidence-based explanation of why it's a false positive
- Reference to the specific defensive code, type system, or validation that makes it safe
- The automated disclaimer so reviewers know it was triaged by Ralph Bugbot

### Step 5: Commit and Submit

**EXECUTE THESE COMMANDS after fixing (do not skip):**

1. Stage all changes: `git add -A`
2. Commit with message describing fixes: `git commit -m "fix: address bugbot feedback"`
3. Submit via Graphite: `gt submit --update-only`

**You MUST run git add, commit, and gt submit. Do not just show the commands.**

**IMPORTANT:** Never use `git push`, `git rebase`, or `git pull`. Always use `gt submit --update-only` for pushing changes.

### Step 6: Wait for Bugbot Check

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY after pushing. Do not skip.**

Run the `wait-for-bugbot.sh` script in this skill's directory.

### Step 7: Check CI Status and Fix Failures

**RUN THIS IMMEDIATELY after bugbot completes:**

Run the `check-ci-status.sh` script in this skill's directory.

The script excludes bugbot checks (tracked by `wait-for-bugbot.sh`) and polls internally until all CI checks reach a terminal state.

**Evaluate the result:**

- **Exit code 0 (SUCCESS):** All CI checks passing → Continue to Step 8
- **Exit code 1 (FAILURE):** Failing checks found → Fix them (see below)
- **Exit code 2 (TIMEOUT):** Checks still pending after polling timeout → Wait 60s and re-run. **NEVER conclude the task while checks are pending.**

#### Fixing CI Failures

When checks fail, follow this process for each failing check:

**1. Get failure details:**

Run the `get-check-logs.sh` script:

```bash
# Get all failed logs
./get-check-logs.sh

# Or filter by check name
./get-check-logs.sh "lint"
./get-check-logs.sh "test"
```

The script extracts run IDs from check URLs and uses `gh run view --log-failed` to fetch the actual error output.

**2. Identify the issue type and fix:**

| Check Type     | Common Issues                  | Fix Approach                                  |
| -------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- |
| **Lint**       | ESLint, TSLint, Pylint errors  | Run linter locally, fix reported errors       |
| **Format**     | Prettier, Black, gofmt         | Run formatter: `npm run format` or equivalent |
| **Type Check** | TypeScript, mypy errors        | Fix type errors in reported files             |
| **Tests**      | Unit/integration test failures | Read test output, fix failing assertions      |
| **Build**      | Compilation errors             | Fix syntax/import errors                      |

**3. Common fix commands (run locally first):**

```bash
# JavaScript/TypeScript
npm run lint -- --fix    # Auto-fix lint errors
npm run format           # Run formatter
npm run typecheck        # Check types
npm test                 # Run tests locally

# Python
ruff check --fix .       # Auto-fix lint
black .                  # Format
mypy .                   # Type check
pytest                   # Run tests

# Go
go fmt ./...             # Format
golangci-lint run        # Lint
go test ./...            # Run tests
```

**4. After fixing:**

- Stage changes: `git add -A`
- Commit: `git commit -m "fix: address CI failures"`
- Submit via Graphite: `gt submit --update-only`
- Re-run `check-ci-status.sh` to verify

**5. If you cannot fix a CI failure:**

- Note it in the progress report
- Let the human know what's failing and why you couldn't fix it
- Continue with other fixable issues

### Step 8: Report Progress

**Brief summary only** (don't over-explain):

```
Fixed: [list files:lines]
Resolved as false positive (replied + resolved): [list files:lines with brief reason]
CI fixes: [list what was fixed - lint, format, tests, etc.]
Remaining bugbot comments: [count]
CI status: [PASSING/FAILING with details]
```

### Step 9: Loop Behavior

After pushing and waiting for checks:

- The ralph-loop will re-run this skill
- Next iteration will re-fetch comments (bugbot has finished re-analyzing)

**Completion criteria — ALL must be true simultaneously:**

1. `wait-for-bugbot.sh` reached a terminal state (not pending, not timed out)
2. Step 2 finds zero unresolved bugbot comments
3. `check-ci-status.sh` exits 0 (all CI checks passing)

**You are NOT done until everything has settled.** Do not rationalize early exits. Do not describe pending checks as "just a status indicator" or "external check that can be ignored." If a script is still polling, a check is still pending, or bugbot hasn't finished — you wait. The entire purpose of this skill is to keep going until the PR is clean.

### CRITICAL: Handling Pending States

**If bugbot or any CI check is in a PENDING state, you MUST wait for it to finish before emitting the completion promise.** Specifically:

- If `wait-for-bugbot.sh` reports bugbot is still running or pending → **wait for it to complete, then re-fetch comments**
- If `check-ci-status.sh` exits with code 2 (timeout/pending) → **sleep 60 seconds and re-run the script**
- **NEVER emit `<promise>` while any check is pending** — a pending check is not a passing check
- **NEVER describe a pending check as "external" or "not blocking"** — all checks must reach a terminal state

If you find yourself writing "pending" in your progress report, that is a signal you are NOT done. Go back and wait.

## Rules

1. **Move fast** - Execute commands immediately. No deliberation between steps.
2. **Only unresolved bugbot comments** - Work EXCLUSIVELY from the `$UNRESOLVED` output from Step 2. Never re-fetch threads, never look at resolved threads, never process comments from other reviewers. If a thread is not in `$UNRESOLVED`, it does not exist for you.
3. **Verify rigorously** - For false positives, gather evidence before resolving
4. **Resolve false positives** - Use GraphQL mutation to mark them resolved (don't just skip)
5. **Never blindly fix OR resolve** - Both bugs and false positives need verification
6. **Minimal changes** - Fix the bug, don't refactor
7. **When uncertain, skip** - Flag for human review instead of guessing
8. **Always commit and submit** - After fixes or resolving false positives, use `gt submit --update-only`
9. **One iteration = one pass** - Don't try to loop internally; let ralph-loop handle iteration
10. **Fix CI failures** - After addressing bugbot, check and fix lint/format/test failures
11. **Run locally first** - For CI failures, run the failing check locally before pushing fixes
12. **Never rebase, push, or pull** - Only use `git add`, `git commit`, and `gt submit --update-only`. Graphite handles branch management.
13. **Never conclude until fully settled** - If any check is pending, any script is polling, or bugbot hasn't finished analyzing, you are not done. Do not rationalize pending checks as "status indicators" or "external checks." Wait until everything reaches a terminal state.
14. **Never emit `<promise>` while anything is pending** - The word "pending" in your output means you are NOT done. If you wrote "pending" anywhere in your progress report, do not emit the completion promise. Go back and wait for the pending item to resolve.

## Usage

Invoke this skill when:

- You need to address bugbot feedback on a PR
- You need to fix CI failures (lint, format, tests)
- Used with `/ralph-wiggum:ralph-loop` for automated iteration
- User says "fix bugbot comments", "fix CI", or similar

The skill will loop via ralph-loop until all bugbot comments are resolved and all CI checks pass.
